# Start writing

It's time to write your first post

Visit [localhost:4000/admin](http://localhost:4000/admin) to use admin functions.

This is default login credential

```
username: admin
password: 123123
```

## Write your first post

Click button `New post` to start writing a new post. Default editor is markdown editor.

This is the standard format of a post. 

```markdown
---
title: this is a title
slug: my-first-post
date: 2019-10-01
categories: CategoryA, CateogryB
tags: Tag1, Tag2
draft: true
cover: "your photo url here"
---

this is excerpt

---

your blog content here
```



The post has 3 sections separated by `---`

### Metadata

- **title**: your post title
- **slug**[optional]: slug in used to access your article, instead of using id. `slug` will be automatically generated from `title` if you don't set it. The slug must be unique for each post. In the above case, the url for this post is `localhost:4000/posts/my-first-post`.
- **date**: published date. It is used to order your posts. Date must follow format `YYYY-MM-DD`
- **categories**[optional]: List of your post's categorie. If category does not exist, it will be added to database.
- **tags**[optional]: Your post's tags. It will be added to database if not existing.
- **draft**[optional]: Set it to `true` to unpublish your post. Default is `false`
- **cover**[optional]: Provide a cover photo for your post if your template use it.

###  Excerpt[Optional]

The second sections after the Metadata section is post's exerpt

### Post content

If there is only 2 sections, the second section will be used as post  content. If there are 3 sections, 3rd section is used as post content.



## Create a page

Similar to post, but there are some differences:

- Page has only 2 sections, `metadata` and `content`.
- Page doesn't have `categories` and `tags`
- Page support `template` options which allow you to set template layout for your page. Templates are placed in `<theme>/templates/page_templates`

This is a sample page

```markdown
---
title: this is a page with template
slug: about-markdown
is_draft: false
template: custom_template
---

# hello, This is a page with custom template

----
## what is Markdown?
see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown)

> Markdown is a lightweight markup language, originally created by John Gruber and Aaron Swartz allowing people "to write using an easy-to-read, easy-to-write plain text format, then convert it to structurally valid XHTML (or HTML)".

----
## usage
1. Write markdown text in this textarea.
2. Click 'HTML Preview' button.
```

This page URL can be access via: `localhost:4000/pages/about-markdown` and it use template `custom_template.html.eex`

